# Comparative analysis of monolithic and microservice applications characteristics in Java EE environment
The paper presents a comparative analysis of monolithic and microservice architectures, based on software systems development using the mentioned architectures in Java EE environment. The systems were developed on the same study example of the Football Fantasy game. The paper contains seven chapters. The first chapter is an introductory part of the paper. The second chapter describes all the technologies used to implement the study example software systems. The third chapter contains a detailed description of the characteristics of monolithic and microservices architectures. There are presented their key features, with all the advantages and challenges. The complete process of migrating from monolithic systems to microservices is described in detail. In the fourth chapter is given a detailed description of all software development phases using a simplified Larman’s method on a study example. It describes software development through five phases: requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation and testing. The fifth chapter provides a comparative analysis of using monolithic and microservices architectures in software development, according to a predefined set of criteria. The criteria of comparison, metrics, methodologies and procedures used in the research are precisely defined, after which the obtained results were presented along with visualizations and conclusions. The sixth chapter gives the final conclusion of the complete paper, while the seventh chapter contains a list of literature used in writing the paper.
